---
title: 'Tuning of structure and enhancement of upconversion luminescence in NaLuF$_4$: Yb$^{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ crystals'
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2015-06-25-paper3
excerpt: ''
date: 2015-06-25
venue: 'Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CP02627J'
citation: 'H. Lin, D. Xu, A. Li, <i>et al</i>. &quot;Tuning of structure and enhancement of upconversion luminescence in NaLuF$_4$: Yb$^{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ crystals&quot; <i>Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics</i>, 2015, 17, 19515-19526.'
---
A series of NaLuF$_4$:Yb{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ nano/micro-crystals with different crystal structures were synthesized via a hydrothermal method using citric acid as a chelating agent. The influences of NaF content, Li$^+$ doping, reaction temperature and reaction time on the crystal structure and shape of the as-synthesized NaLuF$_4$ crystals were systematically investigated. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first time to report Li$^+$ doped α-NaLuF$_4$:Yb$^{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ nanocrystals and the phase transformation by introducing Li$^+$ in NaLuF$_4$ crystals. As for Li+ doped α-NaLuF$_4$, UC luminescence intensities of green emission (538 nm) and red emission (644 nm) in α-NaLuF$_4$:Yb{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ nanocrystals with 20 mol% Li$^+$ doping are enhanced by 20 and 3.5 times compared to their Li$^+$-free counterpart. As for Li$^+$ doped α/β-mixed NaLuF$_4$, with the increase of Li$^+$ content, the phase transforms from the α/β-mixed phase to hexagonal then to cubic. UC emissions of 538 nm and 644 nm in NaLuF$_4$:Yb{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ crystals doped with 5 mol% Li$^+$ are enhanced by 26.5 and 23 times, respectively. Besides, it is found that with the higher temperature and prolonged time, the morphology of NaLuF$_4$ changes from nanoparticles to microtubes, resulting in the dramatic increase of UC emission intensity. The effects of Li$^+$ doping, reaction temperature and reaction time on the enhancement of UC emission intensity are discussed in detail. This study provides an effective and facile approach to obtain nano/micro-crystals with controllable structures and excellent optical properties.

[Journal URL](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CP02627J) &emsp; [PDF]()

Recommended citation: H. Lin, D. Xu, A. Li, <i>et al</i>. &quot;Tuning of structure and enhancement of upconversion luminescence in NaLuF$_4$: Yb$^{3+}$, Ho$^{3+}$ crystals&quot; <i>Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics</i>, 2015, 17, 19515-19526.