---
title: 'Facile morphology-controllable hydrothermal synthesis and color tunable luminescence properties of NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>: Eu<sup>3+</sup>,Tb<sup>3+</sup> microcrystals'
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2015-05-15-paper2
excerpt: ''
date: 2015-05-15
venue: 'RSC Advances'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA06221G'
citation: '<b>A. Li</b>, D. Xu, H. Lin, <i>et al</i>. &quot;Facile morphology-controllable hydrothermal synthesis and color tunable luminescence properties of NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>: Eu<sup>3+</sup>,Tb<sup>3+</sup> microcrystals&quot;, <i>RSC Advances</i>, 2015, 5, 45693-45702.'
---
[Journal URL](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2015/RA/C5RA06221G)

Well-crystallized and uniform NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> microcrystals with morphologies of bipyramids, truncated bipyramids, quasi-cubes and tetragonal plates were selectively synthesized via a facile hydrothermal method without any additives under mild conditions. The effects of Na<sub>2</sub>MoO<sub>4</sub>/Gd(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub> molar ratios and pH values of precursor solutions on the phase and morphology of the as-synthesized microcrystals were systematically investigated. The molar ratios and pH values played key roles in the selective synthesis of pure phase NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> microcrystals with regular morphology. With increasing Na<sub>2</sub>MoO<sub>4</sub>/Gd(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub> molar ratios in the appropriate pH range, the morphology of the products changed from bipyramids, truncated bipyramids, quasi-cubes to tetragonal plates, namely, the morphological truncation degree increased gradually. NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> tetragonal microplates could be synthesized at the molar ratio of 9 : 1. A possible morphological formation mechanism of NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> tetragonal microplates was proposed, i.e. nucleation-Ostwald ripening growth process. Color tunable photoluminescence properties of NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:Eu<sup>3+</sup>,Tb<sup>3+</sup> microcrystals were studied in detail. Among the different morphologies of NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:5% Eu<sup>3+</sup> microcrystals, tetragonal microplates had a broadened, red-shifted and enhanced charge transfer band in the excitation spectrum. What's more, the full-width at half-maximum for the charge transfer band of the tetragonal plates was highest (58 nm), which favored efficient excitation and absorption in the ultraviolet region. The introduction of a small amount of Tb<sup>3+</sup> into NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>  microplates doped with Eu<sup>3+</sup> would enhance the <sup>5</sup>D<sub>4</sub> → <sup>7</sup>F<sub>J</sub> transition of Eu<sup>3+</sup> at 616 nm due to the energy transfer process of cross-relaxation from Tb<sup>3+</sup> to Eu<sup>3+</sup>. Multicolor tunable luminescence from deep red, red, orange, yellow to green under 291 nm ultraviolet excitation and from red, reddish orange to pink under 380 nm near-ultraviolet excitation could be obtained in NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> tetragonal microplates by simply adjusting the doping concentrations of Eu<sup>3+</sup> and Tb<sup>3+</sup>, suggesting NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:Eu<sup>3+</sup>, Tb<sup>3+</sup> microcrystals might have practical application in optoelectronic devices, such as light emitting diodes and color display systems. This facile morphology-controlled hydrothermal synthesis strategy was simple, low-cost and environment-friendly, and might be extended to other inorganic materials.