---
title: 'Lanthanide-Doped KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub> Nanoparticles with High Upconversion Luminescence Performance: A Comparative Study by Judd-Ofelt Analysis and Energy Transfer Mechanistic Investigation'
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-04-06-paper10
excerpt: ''
date: 2017-04-06
venue: 'Scientific Reports'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1038/srep43189'
citation: 'D. Xu, A. Li, L. Yao, <i>et al</i>. &quot;Lanthanide-Doped KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub> Nanoparticles with High Upconversion Luminescence Performance: A Comparative Study by Judd-Ofelt Analysis and Energy Transfer Mechanistic Investigation&quot;, <i>Scientific Reports</i>, 2017, 7: 43189.'
---
[Journal URL](https://www.nature.com/articles/srep43189)&emsp;[PDF](files/paper10.pdf)&emsp;[Supplementary Information](files/paper10-si.pdf)

The development, design and the performance evaluation of rare-earth doped host materials is important for further optical investigation and industrial applications. Herein, we successfully fabricate KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub> upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) through hydrothermal synthesis by controlling the fluorine-to-lanthanide-ion molar ratio. The structural and morphological results show that the samples are orthorhombic-phase hexagonal-prisms UCNPs, with average side length of 80 nm and average thickness of 110 nm. The reaction time dependent crystal growth experiment suggests that the phase transformation is a thermo-dynamical process and the increasing F<sup>−</sup>/Ln<sup>3+</sup> ratio favors the formation of the thermo-dynamical stable phase - orthorhombic KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub> structure. The upconversion luminescence (UCL) spectra display that the orthorhombic KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub>:Yb/Er UCNPs present stronger UCL as much as 280-fold than their cubic counterparts. The UCNPS also display better UCL performance compared with the popular hexagonal-phase NaREF<sub>4</sub> (RE = Y, Gd). Our mechanistic investigation, including Judd-Ofelt analysis and time decay behaviors, suggests that the lanthanide tetrad clusters structure at sublattice level accounts for the saturated luminescence and highly efficient UCL in KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub>:Yb/Er UCNPs. Our research demonstrates that the orthorhombic KLu<sub>2</sub>F<sub>7</sub> is a promising host material for UCL and can find potential applications in lasing, photovoltaics and biolabeling techniques.