---
title: 'Solid solution Na(Gd/La)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:Yb<sup>3+</sup>/Er<sup>3+</sup> upconversion nanocrystals with simultaneously enhanced photothermal conversion efficiency and luminescence intensity'
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2021-11-01-paper16
excerpt: ''
date: 2021-11-01
venue: 'Journal of Luminescence'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jlumin.2021.118356'
citation: '<b>A. Li</b>, D. Xu, Y. Tang, <i>et al</i>. &quot;Solid solution Na(Gd/La)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:Yb<sup>3+</sup>/Er<sup>3+</sup> upconversion nanocrystals with simultaneously enhanced photothermal conversion efficiency and luminescence intensity&quot;, <i>Journal of Luminescence</i>, 2021, 239: 118356.'
---

[View Article Page](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0022231321004725)

Lanthanide doped upconversion nanocrystals with remarkable optical properties have been utilized for many emerging applications. Here, solid solution Na(Gd<sub><em>x</em></sub>La<sub>1-<em>x</em></sub>)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> nanocrystals are synthesized hydrothermally, and their upconversion photoluminescent and photothermal properties as luminescent host matrix for Yb<sup>3+</sup>/Er<sup>3+</sup> activators are systematically studied. The effect of La<sup>3+</sup> doping content on the phase, crystal structure, upconversion luminescence and photothermal conversion are investigated. Rietveld refinements based on XRD data indicate that La<sup>3+</sup> occupy Gd<sup>3+</sup> sites substitutionally, and pure phase solid solution Na(Gd<sub><em>x</em></sub>La<sub>1-<em>x</em></sub>)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> is formed. Due to lattice distortion, lower lanthanide site symmetry and augmented odd-parity crystal field interactions after La<sup>3+</sup> doping, the 4<em>f</em>-4<em>f</em> transition probabilities of the lanthanide ions are effectively increased. Na(Gd/La)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> solid solution hosts exhibit enhanced upconversion luminescence from Er<sup>3+</sup>/Yb<sup>3+</sup>, compared with single-component NaGd(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> counterparts. What&#x27;s more, based on the calculated temperatures of the samples derived from the luminescence intensity ratio of states <sup>2</sup>H<sub>11/2</sub> and <sup>4</sup>S<sub>3/2</sub> for Er<sup>3+</sup>, enhanced photothermal conversion efficiency is speculated in solid solution Na(Gd<sub><em>x</em></sub>La<sub>1-<em>x</em></sub>)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>:Yb<sup>3+</sup>/Er<sup>3+</sup> nanocrystals, which is further confirmed by infrared thermographic images. The underling mechanisms of simultaneously enhanced photothermal effects and luminescence intensity in Na(Gd<sub><em>x</em></sub>La<sub>1-<em>x</em></sub>)(MoO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> solid solution nanocrystals are elucidated. Modulation of composition in solid solution hosts may be an effective method for combating luminescent thermal quenching and/or regulating photothermal conversion and photoluminescence properties simultaneously. Multifunctional solid solution upconversion nanocrystals could be potential for photoluminescent and photothermal applications.
